12 COURT OF PETER THE GREAT

with her husband, to an examination. Now, when it
was proved that there was nothing more in question
than unreflecting and womanly compassion for the
unfortunate, and that there was no trace of deliber-
ate malice, they were indeed exempted from the
penalty of death, but nevertheless condemned to
exile. Thus thoughtless and guileless liberty of the
tongue is chastised where subjects are coerced to
obey through fear alone.

Lieutenant Colone] Narbekoff, impeached for the
late sedition, waS, with twenty-five serfs, dragged off
to prison and the torture.

26th July, 1698).- After dinner to-day the Lord
Envoy, with the greater part of his suite, went to
Prince Galizin’s, as well to pay him a ceremonial
visit as to enjoy the freedom of familiar discourse
with him.

With strange politeness he commanded his musi-
cians, who are natives of Poland, to play various
airs for the amusement of the company, and earn-
estly begged the Lord Envoy to come to his country
house, where he purposed to take the Lord Arch-
bishop for his amusement, before he should finally
start for Persia. He ordered a great variety of
wines to be served to display the extent of his opu-
lenoe. Two of the Prince’s sons, who were present,
were commanded to serve the Lord Archbishop and
the Lord Envoy, really in testimony of a proud
courtesy. He had given them as a companion a

