xviii IN TRODUCTION

logie. The chureh had dared to resist his reforms,
the church must therefore be degraded in order that
the authority of the Czar should be unchallenged.
And as the Bourbons in France‚ following the in-
genious plan of Riclmlieu, demoralized their restive
aristocracy with the frivolities of Versassles, so
Peter, pursuing a less elegant tradition, summoned
his boyars to the debauches of the pothouse‚ where
in drinking bouts of days’ duration he never forgot
to carry tablets to note down suspicions utterances
dropped by wine-loosened tongues.

This not wholly unsophisticated joy in buffoonery
and harlequinade was together with his satanic
cruelty one of the most strongly marked features of
Peter's character. None but a madman could have
carried his former mistress in his own arms to the
scaffold, as Peter did, kissing her sainting form as
her head was laid on the block, taking up the head
again after it had fallen, and exhibiting to his en-
tourage the severed veins and vertebrae, then kissing
it again, crossing himself and departing. Still the
same man who blithely sent favorites to torture
chamber and scaffold could bear with patience the
blows of an exasperated cook whom he had infuriated
by some practica] joke.

The work which Peter accomplished was as com-
posite as his personality. He grafted European
civilization on to the old Russian culture, though
branches and trunk were not well fitted. He left a

