X

RETURN OF THE IMPERIAL LEGATION
FROM MUSCOVY TO VIENNA

23rd July, 1699.—— Although no such practice or
custom be in force in any European Court, as ac-
companying the departure of the Ministers of
foreign Princes with a public solemnity and extra-
⁴ordinary exhibition of pomp; so that for ages it had
come to be considered a useless expense of public
honors to wait on their departure with state or
splendor; nevertheless the Court of Russia departed
in our time by a contrary usage from this general
sentiment, honoring Mr. de Printz, Envoy Extraor-
dinary of the Elector of Bra-ndenburg (as an es-
pecial friendly distinction, in order to exhibit more
abundantly the fraternal bonds lately confirmed be-
tween the two princes), with the same state cere-
monia] at his departure as that with which they
received him on his arrival, and had thought fit to
accompany his entry into their walls. The like was
intimated to the Lord Envoy also, after the cere-
monial of giving him his re-credentials. He indeed
set himself against this novel and unusual method of

demonstrative friendship; but it was labor in vain.
159

