106 COURT OF PETER THE GREAT

speech rather too much in the Czar’s presence, in
Bebraschentsko3 but he has been castigated bodily,
and the smart of the stripes has duly impressed upon
him how much it behoveth to be of reverent speech
with his sovereign.

6th ξῙαηίιανζῃ, 1699.-Α woman who had killed
both her husband and her mother was questioned, by
What impulses she had been driven to commit a crime
so impious and inhuman - whether she did not know
with what cruel rigor crimes of that kind were
avenged? To the amazement of the inquirer‚ she
replied, with a fearless front: “I lately saw two
women found guilty of killing a husband awaiting a
slow death in their pits: I neither doubt that the
same torment awaits me, nor do Ι erave for any
favor; it is enough for me that, having killed my
husband and my mother I can rejoiee at so bold a
deed.” The ordinary penalty of the pit was sharp—
ened in her case, by burning her limbs in addition.

8th, 9th Jcmu-ary, 1699.— The Czar was dining
with Prince Galizin, when a sudden tumult announced
that a fire had broken out, and had already eon-
sumed the house of a certain Boyar. The Czar, ex-
eited at this, springing hastily from the table and
running headlong to the place where he had heard the
fire was raging, not only gave his advice, but ac-
tually employed his own hands in putting out the
flames, and was seen laboring away among the very
mttering ruins of the house.

