86 COURT OF PETER THE GREAT

of the sea, and sets the arduous pursuit of glory
above all pleasures and amusements. He went
through the military functions from the very lowest
rank, and would not ascend the throne of his an-
cestors‚ and mount the pinnacle of sovereign power,
before he had passed through all the grades of mil-
itary rank to the highest, that of General-in-Chief
(Campicucis)‚ so glorious does he esteem it to have
merited dignity before possessing it.

OF FEMALE LuxURY.- The women of Muscovy
are graceful in figure, and fair and comely of fea-
ture: but spoil their beauty with needless· shams.
Their shapes, unimprisoned by stays, are free to
grow as nature bids, and are not so neat and trim of
figure as those of other Europeans. They wear
chemises interwoven with gold all through, the
sleeves of which are plaited up in a marvelous way,
being eight and sometimes ten ells in length, and their
pretty concatenation of little plaits extends down
to the hands, and is confined with handsome and
costly bracelets. Their outer garments resemble
those of Eastern women: they wear a cloak over their
tunic. They often dress in handsome silks and sum,
and earrings and rings are in general fashion among
them.

Matrons and widows cover the head with furs of
price3 maidens only wear a rich band round their
forehead and go bareheaded‚ with their locks floating

